Stores are a way of storing data that
doesn't belong to an individual component.
And Svelte can makes a few read only
stores available to your application
via the app/stores module.
We have the page store, the navigating
store, and the updating store.
And the one that you'll use most
of the time is the page store.
Provides information about the current
page such as the URL, the params object
that we've already seen in our load
functions and our API route handlers.
A route object with an ID property
that represents the current route.
So for example, inside about /page.svelte,
the root ID is /about.
The HTTP status code of the current page,
the error object of the current page if
there is one,
we'll learn about that later.
The data prop and the form prop
that combines all of the data
from one of the layout functions and
the page data.
And so just like with any other store in
Svelte, you can reference its value inside
a component by prefixing its
name with the dollar symbol.
So for example,
we can access the current path name
as dollar page dot URL dot path name.
So in our layout, .svelte component here,
let's add a script block.
And we're gonna import the page store,
From $app/stores.
But now, inside our nav element,
we're going to add an aria
current attribute to indicate which
of these pages is currently active.
I'm just gonna copy that for
the about page, then update this bit.
If we reload the page and
navigate between these two links,
we'll see that the aria-current
attribute is updating when we navigate,
and we have some CSS that is
targeting that attribute.
The navigating store represents
the current navigation.
And so when a navigation starts,
whether that's because of a link click, or
a back forward navigation,
or a programmatic go to.
The value of navigation will become
an object with some properties.
We have from and to,
these are things with a params object,
the route object, and the url.
We'll also have a navigation type,
which can be link, or pop state or go to.
And if you wanna see the complete type
information for the navigation object,
you can look that up on
the SvelteKit documentation site.
We can use this store to
show a loading navigation,
a loading indicator for
long-running navigations.
So in this exercise in our page server.js,
and
in our about page server.js,
we have these artificial delays,
it's gonna take a full second
to navigate between these pages.
We can see that if we click, it's gonna
take a whole second before that updates.
So inside our layout Svelte
where the navigation is defined,
I'm gonna bring in the navigating store.
And then we're gonna add some UI
indicating what's going on.
By the way, this URL object here,
this is the web standard URL constructor.
It's a super useful object that you'll
interact with a lot when you're building
SvelteKit apps.
So I recommend getting comfortable
with this page of MDN.
Okay, so
now let me navigate between these pages.
We see that we get a little indication
on the right-hand side telling us what's
happening.
So more typically,
you would use this to have some kind
of a progress indicator and so on.
This is actually one of the issues
that you get with a single-page app.
There is no direct feedback when
you navigate between pages,
you're kind of relying on the navigation
to be fast enough that it doesn't matter.
But there is gonna be a brand-new
navigation API landing in browsers fairly
soon, which will allow us to control
the refresh icon that starts spinning,
when you have a traditional
navigation between pages.
We'll be able to use that
in single page apps too.
But for now, it's a good practice to
have some kind of loading indicator in
your single page app UI.
Okay, and finally,
the updated store contains a value
of true or false depending on
whether a new version of the app has been
deployed since the page was first opened.
And for this to work,
you need to add some configuration
to your SvelteConfig.js file.
Specifically, you need to add
this version object with a name,
which changes when your
application is redeployed.
Right now, we're just using date.now
toString, which is the default value, but
ideally, you should use something
like the current commit hash, so
that your deploys are consistent.
And you also need to add a poll interval,
I've got five seconds here.
This is what SvelteKit is gonna use to
check whether the version has changed
while the page is open.
Now, version changes only
happen in production,
they don't happen during development.
For that reason, updated is always
gonna be false in this tutorial.
But we can imagine, for example,
that you would have something like
a toast that appears when the updated
store changes from false to true.
You can use this in other ways.
For example, if you have a very
long-running session, and the application
is redeployed while the user has the app
open, then that can break navigations.
Because you might try to fetch the code
for a new page, and discover that all of
the hashes have changed, and so we're
unable to import the relevant modules.
And in that case, SvelteKit will fall
back to a full page navigation, so
usually we're able to recover without the
user noticing that anything went wrong.
But it can be nice to proactively
tell the user that the application
has updated or
even to disable the router altogether, so
that we don't need to have
that error handling logic.